Console/Microfrontend capability (#259)
kyma-project/community: capabilities/console-microfrontends.md

---
displayName: Console/Microfrontends
epicsLabels:
  - area/console
  - area/luigi
---

## Scope

The Console/Microfrontends capability is all about how a user interacts with kyma UI. It drives the development of Console, a modular and extensible web user interface for managing all aspects of kyma.

## Vision

* User Experience

    * Provide easy and intuitive user interfaces for kyma to support its users in the best possible way
    * Focus on a consistent user experience based on unified [Fiori 3 Fundamentals](https://sap.github.io/fundamental/components/index.html) style guides
    * Enable most common user journeys in the UI so that usage CLI is not required
    * Don't hide the kubernetes nature from the user but augment it with kyma-specific user guidance

* Extensibility & Modularity

    * Use [Luigi orchestration framework](https://github.com/kyma-project/luigi) as UI extension mechanism to ease customization
    * Compose user interfaces from modular and highly reusable UI components
    * Ensure consistent and correct usage of microfrontend-hosting

> * Unified API access

Reviewer: The vision is more about having fast, responsive, scalable and secure UI supported by GraphQL backend

---
displayName: Console/Microfrontends
epicsLabels:
  - area/console
  - area/luigi
---

## Scope

> The Console/Microfrontends capability is all about how a user interacts with kyma UI. It drives the development of Console, a modular and extensible web user interface for managing all aspects of kyma.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Console/Microfrontends capability relates to the way in which a user interacts with the Kyma UI. It drives the development of the Console, a modular and extensible web user interface for managing all aspects of Kyma.
```

## Vision

* User Experience

>     * Provide easy and intuitive user interfaces for kyma to support its users in the best possible way

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    * Provide easy and intuitive user interfaces for Kyma to support its users in the best possible way.
```

>     * Focus on a consistent user experience based on unified [Fiori 3 Fundamentals](https://sap.github.io/fundamental/components/index.html) style guides

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    * Focus on a consistent user experience based on unified [Fiori 3 Fundamentals](https://sap.github.io/fundamental/components/index.html) style guides.
```

>     * Enable most common user journeys in the UI so that usage of CLI is not required

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    * Enable most common user journeys in the UI so that usage of CLI is not required.
```

>     * Don't hide the kubernetes nature from the user but augment it with kyma-specific user guidance

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    * Don't hide the Kubernetes nature from the user but extend it with Kyma-specific user guidance.
```

* Extensibility & Modularity

>     * Use [Luigi orchestration framework](https://github.com/kyma-project/luigi) as UI extension mechanism to ease customization

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    * Use [Luigi orchestration framework](https://github.com/kyma-project/luigi) as UI extension mechanism to ease customization.
```

>     * Compose user interfaces from modular and highly reusable UI components

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    * Compose user interfaces from modular and highly reusable UI components.
```

>     * Ensure consistent and correct usage of microfrontend-hosting

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    * Ensure consistent and correct usage of microfrontend-hosting.
```

* Fast & Responsive
    
    * Quick loading time for user interfaces

>     * Load only the essential data that is needed for rendering user interfaces and nothing more (use GraphQL)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    * Load only the essential data that is needed for rendering user interfaces and nothing more (use GraphQL).
```

>     * Give the user feedback for his actions (use websockets)   

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    * Give the user feedback for his actions (use websockets).
```
